As has been mentioned
in our scripture for today,
the apostle Paul talks
about this inner struggle
—this inner war, really—
that is going on
inside every one of us.
It’s the war
between God’s law in our mind
and sin’s law in our flesh.
And it’s interesting,
the expression “law”
in both cases
is appropriate because a law
—the purpose—
is to legislate action
or conduct.
And of course,
God’s law in our mind
is trying to legislate
that we act
according to Jehovah’s thinking.
But, of course,
sin’s law in our flesh
is trying to dictate
that we act
according to Satan’s thinking
—selfishly, fleshly.
And it is an intense war, see.
These two laws are warring,
trying to overpower each other
and dominate
and control how we act,
and only if we fight hard
will we win the war.
Now, the apostle Paul fought hard,
didn’t he?
It’s true he lost some battles
along the way,
but he won the war, didn’t he?
And he’s now
an immortal spirit creature
in the heavens.
So we want to imitate Paul.
But now,
what can help us win this war?
Well, let’s develop
an illustration that can help us
—hopefully appreciate what can help us—
to win the war.
We want to illustrate
with two opposing armies.
And if we think about it,
that’s what we have
inside of us, don’t we?
We have two opposing armies
fighting each other.
In effect, one is a good army;
one is a very bad army.
Now, what can we do
to help the good army,
God’s law in our mind,
to dominate
over the other army?
Well, let’s talk about two factors
that are involved:
one, food;
second, attitude.
Now, taking first, food.
If one army is well-fed
and the other is starved,
now, which one
do you think is going to win?
Well, the answer is obvious,
isn’t it?
It makes me think
of the saying that an army
marches on its stomach.
Well, how do we
feed the good army?
Jesus said in Matthew 4:4:
“Man must live,
“not on bread alone,
but on every word
that comes
from Jehovah’s mouth.”
First Peter 2:2
talks about the “milk of the word.”
Hebrews 5:14
talks about the “solid food,”
deeper truths of God’s Word.
Matthew 24:45, Jesus talks
about feeding his disciples
through the faithful slave.
So how do we
feed the good army?
Well, we consistently,
diligently consume
the spiritual food
and thereby keep
the law of God in our mind
well-nourished,
strong, and healthy.
But now,
how do we starve the bad army?
Well, for one thing,
we refuse to dwell
on the immoral thinking
that Satan’s world promotes.
We wouldn’t even think
of looking at pornography.
If we did that,
that would be
like feeding a steak dinner
to the bad army.
But even much more than that,
if an immoral thought
enters our mind,
we push it out.
We pray to Jehovah.
We get the Bible out;
start reading it; somehow we switch
our mind
onto something wholesome.
We do our best,
as brought out
at 2 Corinthians 10:5
to bring
“every thought into captivity”
and “to make it
obedient to the Christ.”
We also refuse
to feed our mind materialistic
and other worldly thinking
that Satan’s world promotes.
When we think about this matter
of feeding the good army,
starving the bad army,
it makes me think
of the old Cherokee Indian legend
—you might have heard of this.
According to one reference book,
a grandfather was talking
to his grandson,
and he talked
about how he had inside him
two wolves fighting intensely
with each other
—one, a very good wolf;
one, a very bad wolf.
The grandson naturally wanted to know,
“Well, which one is going to win?”
Well, the grandfather explained,
“The one I feed.”
And it’s really true of us.
But now, let’s get
the second factor—attitude.
If one army has a positive,
determined attitude
and the other has a hopeless,
demoralized attitude,
which one is likely to win?
Well, again,
the answer is pretty clear.
Well, how do we maintain
a positive, determined attitude
in the figurative good army
inside of us?
Open up
to 2 Corinthians chapter 4, please.
And here is a key factor:
No matter what trials,
tests, tribulations
come our way,
we don’t give up;
we don’t lose our hope;
we keep our eyes on the prize.
Now, notice how it’s expressed here,
2 Corinthians chapter 4
beginning in verse 16.
It says: “Therefore,
“we do not give up,
“but even if the man
we are outside
“is wasting away,
“certainly the man
we are inside
“is being renewed
from day to day.
“For though the tribulation
is momentary and light,
“it works out for us
a glory that is of more
“and more surpassing greatness
and is everlasting;
“while we keep our eyes,
not on the things seen,
“but on the things unseen.
“For the things seen
are temporary,
but the things unseen
are everlasting.”
And I really like
that thought that any trial,
no matter how intense it is,
is only momentary
and is only light,
relatively speaking.
It’s momentary when you think
of the comparison
of eternal blessings
in Jehovah’s new world.
It’s light compared
to the weightiness,
the greatness, of the blessings
of Jehovah’s new world.
Can you imagine
being able to trade
a moment of pain
for an eternity of pleasure?
An ounce of misery
for tons of happiness?
And if you think about it,
we’re able to make that exchange,
see, if we don’t give up,
no matter what trial comes our way.
But now, how do we infuse
a hopeless,
demoralized attitude
into the bad army,
sin’s law in our flesh?
Well, for one thing,
we always remember
that if we were
to give in to sin’s law
and pursue a life of sin
—and that’s just a terrible thought
to even think about,
but if we did that
—it would be a lose-lose proposition,
wouldn’t it?
In fact,
we would lose big time now,
reaping the horrible consequences
—physically, mentally, emotionally—
of sin.
We would lose even bigger in the future,
totally missing out
on what Jehovah has in store
for those who love him.
So we remember that.
And we remember scriptures
such as Psalm 37:38:
“All the transgressors
will be destroyed;
the future of wicked people
will be cut off,” see.
We remember that Satan
and his followers
are headed for the lake of fire,
and we don’t want to join them.
See, our destination
is the new world, isn’t it?
Not the lake of fire.
So we
don’t even slightly envy
the wicked, unlike Asaph.
At one point in his life,
he began to envy them.
We don’t envy them.
We feel sorry for them, don’t we?
We certainly infuse
this hopeless attitude
into the bad army
that to pursue a course of sin
would be very foolish.
Well, there we have
two factors involved:
food and attitude.
Now if we had time,
we could discuss training,
equipment.
But we’re going
to leave that for you.
You can do that in your family worship,
your personal study.
And I think you’ll find it interesting
if you pursue, just like we did
with food and attitude,
equipment and training.
But the point is,
as long as we have this inner struggle
inside us, it’s really good.
It means we haven’t lost.
See, we’re still fighting.
And even though we lose
a battle or two along the way,
we’ll win the war if:
We don’t give up; we don’t lose hope;
we don’t surrender.
So don’t ever put up the white flag.
Don’t ever call a truce.
Continue to fight
until that wonderful day
when that inner struggle
will be gone.
We’ll be perfect,
and God’s law
in our mind
will completely dominate.
And like Jehovah and Jesus,
just naturally,
our natural inclination
will be to do what is right.
But until then, let us fight
with all our might.